---
layout: post
title:  Design your adventure
---

Creative people often have a story to tell about the adventurous path they took from their youth to where they ended up. I love hearing them describe their unique journey, with its ups, downs, and surprises. Finding your creative calling and matching it to a sustainable career is a complex design challenge, and its process is never linear. It often starts with a naive student studying a traditional vocation, living in a coma of convention. One day this student serendipitously stumbles into a rabbit hole that opens their eyes to a new world of creative possibilities. After some self discovery, trial and error, and a lucky break, the student creates a new goal and works hard to reach it. Soon they are living their creative dream and their hidden talent is revealed to the adoring world. Sometime this journey is a gently flowing course, but often its full of surprising cliffs, big boulders, and dead ends.

The creative field is full of people who started down one path but ended up on another. A mechanical engineers transformed into a design strategist. A librarian reclassified as information architect. An english lit grad writing personas for product research. Teachers who turned a hobby into an crafty startup. Architects who gave up drafting structures to imagine worlds built in VR. 

What is it about creativity that is so easily overlooked when careers are prescribed? Is the cultural impressions of starving artists, or the comfort of a clear path to 'success' that keep us from considering a creative calling? It's probably many things. But even if we try to avoid it, creativity often finds its way out of us. Suddenly we're jumping off the well worn path and trying something new. Time to see where this goes, up, down, around the corner, we just follow it. Eventually it leads to a creative output that makes our calling complete.  
Are you there yet? If not, keep chasing your calling. Once you find it, stop and look back. That jagged, winding path behind you is a great adventure story, designed by you.